Let's talk about file i o what is I O mean.
You'll see this a lot in programming I O stands for input output.
You see most of the times machines are not communicating in just one environment for example.
So far we've been writing our code in a let's say an editor like Sublime Text that I have here or PI
charm or an online reptile but usually you want to interact with different parts of the system maybe
you want to speak to another Web site maybe you want to speak to something that's on your desktop maybe
a file maybe two different machines are communicating with each other maybe you're speaking to a database
Io simply means hey I want you to input something from the outside world and output something into the
outside world and one of the most common ways that we use things like IO is through reading files you
might think about Python and how wouldn't it be nice if we can perhaps write a script that compresses
images while we need Io then I need to input an image and then I need to up but the compressed image
maybe I want to work with the PDUFA and maybe add a watermark to all my PDA pages while then we input
a PD F and output a new version of a PDA.
So this is a very common task that we see a lot of and reading and writing files is a very important
tool in our tool belt and by the way we have a projects coming up where we actually are going to use
this with PD FS but for now how can we do this file input output with Python well Python has a built
in function that allows us to open and write to files and it's simply called Open.
Nice and easy.
So using open we can do something like this.
I can create a sample text file in our desktop.
So I'm going to use my terminal here so if we look at present working directory I'm on a desktop.
If you're on Windows then you might have to do some different commands in here.
But by now you should be pretty familiar that you can create a file if you wanted to.
Now I can do this manually or in my terminal I can actually do if you're on a Mac you can just do touch
and then I'll say test dot text.
So if I do else here you see that I have a test dot text file and a script dot file and again just to
double check if I go to my desktop yep I have these two right here.
Perfect now in here we can simply say in our script file open and the name of the file in our case it's
test make sure it's string test dot text just like that.
Now I can assign this to a variable calling it my file and now we have well the file object so let's
check this out if I do here print my file.
Let's see what happens.
I'm going to run my code so let's say Python 3 and then run script dot Pi
I get an object a text Io wrapper I get the name which is text I get mode which I'm not sure what it
is yet we'll learn and then encoding which is how this file is encoded which is UTF 8 most of the files
are usually encoded in UTF 8.
All right.
So how can I actually read this file.
All we need to do is my file has a dot read method on it so that if I run this now will I get a blank
piece of space.
Because there's nothing on this test dot text file.
So let's write something.
I'll open this file and sublime text and just write.
Hi my name is Andre Agassi.
I got really really creative with this one.
Good job.
All right let's go back.
So now if I read this file that I'm able to read.
Hi my name is Andre.
And now there you go.
I've read my file.
Nice and easy.
Now if I run this again let's just read this multiple times I click Run hmm.
I'm able to read the first time around but these two times I'm not reading anything.
Why is that will this open function has this idea of a cursor that is you can only read the file once
and once you open it returns a file object.
And the contents of the file you can read and the contents of the file are read with a cursor just like
you see here one by one and printed onto the screen but by the end of this first reading the cursor
is going to be at the end of the file.
So now when it tries to read it's going to be end of the file and nothing will be left there.
So the way we get around this is to do something like this.
We simply say my file dot seek which moves our cursor to whatever index we want in our case seek 0.
So if I run this now.
There you go.
And if I move the cursor back and I save and run this.
All right.
That's a lot better now.
And this is just to demonstrate that Python uses this idea of a cursor to read a file.
Now another unique thing that I can do is to do read line so that if I run this it reads the line.
But let's say our text file has different lines so how are you let's say a smiley face in here.
If I now read the line I get.
Hi my name is Andre.
I read the line again.
Because I get each line I only get the first line.
If I print this multiple times and I run this all right that's better I get.
Hi my name is Andre smiley face.
How are you.
Again the cursor keeps moving right.
So I can just keep reading the lines.
Another thing that I can do is to just say read lines if I run this I get a list that contains the entire
file reads all the lines and you see here that I have Hi my name is Andre Nagoya I have a new line here
a smiley face a new line remember this is escape sequencing and then how are you.
And no new line here because there's no new line.
It's the end of the file so these are extremely useful.
Maybe we can use regular expressions to search for a piece of text in a file that's pretty useful right.
Now the very last thing we need to do and this is a little annoying so I'll show you how we don't need
to do it in the future but you actually have to manually close the file after you've opened it with
open so you can use it somewhere else and the program is just a good standard.
So while you have to do is say my file dot close after you're done with it.
You tell your computer hey you need to stop whatever you're doing.
I'm not interested in the file anymore.
We're done with it.
You can use it somewhere else.
So usually we do something like this and we're all done.
Let's take a break and learn some more in the next video.